# PyStock
Introduction : PyStock :
The software that we have created allows the users to access real time stock market within the application , this software can also be used as practice ground for day traders which allows practice without real money.

Features included:
• Live graph
• Real time price • Historic graph
• Real time data
• Financial system • SQL database

Stock Market:
A stock market, equity market, or share market is the aggregation of buyers and sellers of stocks (also called shares), which represent ownership claims on businesses; these may include securities listed on a public stock exchange, as well as stock that is only traded privately, such as shares of private companies which are sold to investors through equity crowdfunding platforms. Investment in the stock market is most often done via stockbrokerages and electronic trading platforms. Investment is usually made with an investment strategy in mind.
 
Real Time Simulator:
Real-time simulation refers to a computer model of a physical system that can execute at the same rate as actual “wall clock” time.
Day Trading :
Day trading is a form of speculation in securities in which a trader buys and sells a financial instrument within the same trading day.
Libraries Used :
OS :
This module provides a portable way of using operating system dependent functionality. If you just want to read or write a file see open(), if you want to manipulate paths, see the os.path module, and if you want to read all the lines in all the files on the command line see the fileinput module. For creating temporary

files and directories see the tempfile module, and for high-level file and directory handling see the shutil module.
The design of all built-in operating system dependent modules of Python is such that as long as the same functionality is available, it uses the same interface; for example, the function os.stat(path) returns stat information about path in the same format (which happens to have originated with the POSIX interface).
Extensions peculiar to a particular operating system are also available through the os module, but using them is of course a threat to portability.
All functions accepting path or file names accept both bytes and string objects, and result

in an object of the same type, if a path or file name is returned.
CSV :
The so-called CSV (Comma Separated Values) format is the most common import and export format for spreadsheets and databases. CSV format was used for many years prior to attempts to describe the format in a standardized way in RFC 4180. The lack of a well-defined standard means that subtle differences often exist in the data produced and consumed by different applications. These differences can make it annoying to process CSV files from multiple sources. Still, while the delimiters and quoting characters vary, the overall format is similar enough that it is possible to write a single module which can efficiently manipulate such data, hiding the details of reading and writing the data from the programmer.

The csv module implements classes to read and write tabular data in CSV format. It allows programmers to say, “write this data in the format preferred by Excel,” or “read data from this file which was generated by Excel,” without knowing the precise details of the CSV format used by Excel. Programmers can also describe the CSV formats understood by other applications or define their own special- purpose CSV formats.
SYS : The sys module in Python provides various functions and variables that are used to manipulate different parts of the Python runtime environment.

Tkinter :
The tkinter package (“Tk interface”) is the standard Python interface to the Tk GUI toolkit. Both Tk and tkinter are available on most Unix platforms, as well as on Windows systems. (Tk itself is not part of Python; it is maintained at ActiveState.)
Running python -m tkinter from the command line should open a window demonstrating a simple Tk interface, letting you know that tkinter is properly installed on your system, and also showing what version of Tcl/Tk is installed, so you can read the Tcl/Tk documentation specific to that version.

Matplotlib :
A picture is worth a thousand words, and with Python’s matplotlib library, it fortunately takes far less than a thousand words of code to create a production-quality graphic. However, matplotlib is also a massive library, and getting a plot to look just right is often achieved through trial and error. Using one-liners to generate basic plots in matplotlib is fairly simple, but skillfully commanding the remaining 98% of the library can be daunting.
 
Yfinance :
 yfinance package not just helps to to access
  the share-price details, it also provides myriad of other financial and non-financial data pertaining to all companies listed in the United States.
yfinance can also be used to obtain data
 related of bonds, stock indices (S&P 500, Nasdaq, Dow 30 etc.), Commodities (Crude Oil , Gold, Silver etc.), Currencies (EUR/USD, GBP/USD, USD/JPY etc.),

International Markets (FTSE 100, Nikkei 225 etc.) and even bitcoin and crypto- currency index.
 Sqlite3 :
SQLite is a C library that provides a lightweight disk-based database that doesn’t require a separate server process and allows accessing the database using a nonstandard variant of the SQL query language. Some applications can use SQLite for internal data storage.
 
It’s also possible to prototype an application using SQLite and then port the code to a larger database such as PostgreSQL or Oracle.
System Requirements For Smooth Performance :
• 32 bit OS
• Python 3.7 or later
• 512 mb ram
• 100 mb storage
Note : Network connectivity required
Instructions before running the script :
Run the following commands in cmd
1. pip install matplotlib
2. pip install yfinance
     
